By default, the system uses the Bundle instance state to save information about each View object when
the activity is destroyed and recreated.
To save additional data about the activity state, you must override the onSaveInstanceState() callback and
onRestoreInstanceState() 

Implict vs explicit intent
Implicit intents do not declare the class name of the component to start, but instead declare an action to perform.
For eg: you will need and intentchooser or intent picker to and set the type of the app you are targeting

To advertise which implicit intents your app can receive, declare one or more intent filters for each of your app
components with an <intent-filter> element in your manifest file.

To allow other apps to start your activity, you need to add an <intent-filter> element in
your manifest file for the corresponding <activity> element with <action>, <data> and <category>
(which is normally defualt) element
setResult()  and startActivityForResult() if you want a result from the activity

Beginning in Android 6.0 (API level 23), users grant permissions to apps while the app is running,
not when they install the app System permissions are divided into two categories,
normal and dangerous:Dangerous permissions can give the app access to the user's 
confidential data.

Best practice for runtime permission
You can explicitly ask permission to get the full control of the app you're using but this will add 
complexity as you have design the
UI. if the user doesn't grant the permission (or revokes it later on), your app becomes unable to 
perform the operation at all.
Quite often your app can avoid requesting a permission by using an intent instead



API 15: Android 4.0.3 (IceCreamSandwich) this cover approx 94.0% of devices that are active on google play store
You get this info when you create the new app in android studio.

How to make app for different screen sizes?
1. Always use dp (density independent pixels )units the base for this is medium density screen. 
for low & high the system scales
2. Provide alternative bit map resources for different densities. 
Place all your launcher icons in the res/mipmap-[density]/ folders,
rather than the res/drawable-[density]/ folders. 
the resources in drawable/ are the default drawable resources. you can also provide orientation qualifier
3. provide different layouts for different screen sizes

To add support for more languages, create additional values directories inside res/ that include a hyphen 
and the ISO language code at the end of the directory name.For example, values-es/. 
Android loads the appropriate resources according to the locale settings of the device at run time.
To add support for more languages, create additional values directories inside res/ that include a
hyphen and the ISO language code at the end of the directory name

Sample-webrtc-web which is the SDK with QuickBlox use for video conferrencing 

Traceview tool to check the bottlenecks in the code and how much time a function is taking to execute.

Android operating system is a stack of software components which is roughly divided into five sections and 
four main layers.

Architecture of android: 
5:Linux kernel: This provides a level of abstraction between the device hardware and it contains all the 
essential hardware drivers like camera, keypad, display etc. 
4: Libraries: SQLite database, SSL libraries responsible for Internet security
3: Android Libraries: Java-based libraries that are specific to Android development
2. Android Runtime: This section provides a key component called Dalvik Virtual Machine which is a kind of Java Virtual Machine
specially designed and optimized for Android.The Dalvik VM makes use of Linux core features like memory management and 
multi-threading, which is intrinsic in the Java language. 
The Dalvik VM enables every Android application to run in its own process, with its own instance of the Dalvik virtual machine.
1. Application Framework: The Application Framework layer provides many higher-level services to applications in the form of 
Java classes
Applications: You will find all the Android application at the top layer. You will write your 
application to be installed on this layer only

Use tape library in android to upload images in the queue even when the network is flaky.
Try pressure testing your app by closing the process.


The Application class, or any subclass of the Application class, is instantiated before any other class when the 
process for your application/package is created.
uses of subclass of application
Global initialization that needs to be shared across all components (crash reporting, persistence)

What is a memory leak?
Some objects have a limited lifetime. When their job is done, they are expected to be garbage collected.
If a chain of references holds an object in memory after the end of its expected lifetime,
this creates a memory leak. When these leaks accumulate, the app runs out of memory.
Avoiding memory leaks 
use optimized data containers provided by android instead by Java for eg: 
SparseArray, SparseBooleanArra and if the activity is destroyed (device rotation) assign the listeners to null generated by
view
Leaving a service running when it’s not needed is one of the worst memory-management mistakes
not to use enums 


Read about View.onMeasure() and View.onLayout()


